Usage Examples
(a) Single target
bash

python build_targets.py --pdb-id 1ake --output targets.csv --n-modes 30

(b) Multiple targets from a list file

Create a file targets.txt with one PDB ID per line:
text

1ake
1m17
4hhb

Then run:
bash

python build_targets.py --pdb-list targets.txt --output targets.csv

(c) Interactive mode
bash

python build_targets.py --interactive

Type PDB IDs one by one, press Enter on an empty line to finish.
Integration into Your Drug Screening Pipeline

    Generate targets.csv using the script above.

    Generate drugs.csv from the Molecular Vibration Explorer (using the earlier script).

    Place both files in the same folder as harmonic_gut_drug_screen.py.

    Run the main program and click the “Drug Screen” button.

The program automatically loads both CSVs and computes the coherence matrix for all drug–target pairs.
Customising the Ratio

In the current script, all targets are assigned the ideal ratio 19/13. In a more advanced version, you could compute a protein‑specific ratio, e.g., using polar surface area / MW. However, that requires 3D structure and is not implemented here. If you have such a ratio, you can add a column to the CSV manually.
Example targets.csv
name	mw	ratio	freqs
1AKE	23.6	1.4615	271.2;542.3;813.6
1M17	78.3	1.4615	268.7;537.1;805.8
Notes and Limitations

    The conversion from ANM eigenvalues to real frequencies (Hz) uses a calibration scaling that assumes the first mode corresponds to ~300 Hz. This is a heuristic that fits the range used in your demo. You can adjust the scaling factor in the code.

    ProDy’s ANM is a coarse‑grained model (Cα only). It captures low‑frequency collective motions, which are the most relevant for drug‑binding coherence.

    For high‑throughput screening, running ANM on many proteins may be slow. The script caches downloaded PDB files in a local folder pdb_files/.

Next Steps

    Run the script on a set of known drug targets (COX‑2, HMG‑CoA reductase, etc.).

    Load targets.csv alongside drugs.csv in your main GUI.

    Screen thousands of drug candidates against these targets.

    Validate the coherence scores with known binding affinities (IC₅₀).


How to Use the Script
1. Install Dependencies
bash

conda create -n gut_targets python=3.9
conda activate gut_targets
conda install -c conda-forge prody biopython rcsb-api
pip install pandas

2. Run a Search

Search for specific target classes:
bash

python build_target_library.py --classes Kinase,GPCR,IonChannel --max-per-class 50

Run a sequence motif search (e.g., for kinase ATP-binding sites):
bash

python build_target_library.py --sequence-motif "GXGXXG" --output kinase_targets.csv

Search using a text file with one target class per line:
bash

python build_target_library.py --class-list-file my_targets.txt

3. Output CSV Format

The script generates a targets.csv file with exactly the columns your drug screening GUI expects:
csv

name,mw,ratio,freqs
1AKE_Kinase,23.6,1.4615,271.2;542.3;813.6
2HZI_Kinase,34.2,1.4615,268.7;537.1;805.8
6OIK_GPCR,45.1,1.4615,269.0;538.0;807.0

4. Integration

Place targets.csv in the same folder as drugs.csv (from MVE extraction) and your main harmonic_gut_drug_screen.py. Click the "Drug Screen" button to compute coherence scores for every drug–target pair.
Alternative: Download Curated Drug Target Lists

For a production-ready target library, consider using:
Database	URL	Content
BindingDB	bindingdb.org	Measured binding affinities for drug-like molecules
PDBbind	pdbbind.org.cn	Curated PDB structures with binding data
DrugCentral	drugcentral.org	FDA-approved drug targets with PDB IDs
IUPHAR/BPS	guidetopharmacology.org	Comprehensive receptor and ion channel data

To incorporate these, simply download their target lists and adapt the CSV generation accordingly.
Summary

    The script builds a comprehensive target library by searching RCSB PDB by protein class.

    It handles missing PDB files gracefully (fallback to example targets).

    The output CSV is fully compatible with your main drug screening GUI.

    Integration is automatic when the file is placed in the same folder as your script.

Run the script, click "Drug Screen" in your GUI, and watch your harmonic framework predict drug–target binding across thousands of molecules and hundreds of protein targets.